Airbnb_Project

Presnetation Link - https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1h9dLi23lSQU8pXmlD3VJmCSN44sHWUXKvgCTmDomu6w/edit?usp=sharing

The project was done as part of the statistical modeling module for my Flatiron School Data Science bootcamp. Given AirBnb’s success in the hotel industry, my partner and I felt that determining the main contributors to the revenue of an individual AirBnb would be a point of interest. 

The dataset was found on insideairbnb.com. Inside Airbnb is a website that has scraped AirBnb listings and compiled them into useable datasets on its website. The dataset we used was of New York City AirBnb information. For each city, there was a collection of information on all the AirBnb listings from that city. The information provided gave us insights into the reviews of the property, rental pricing, and the location of that property. While other information such as host name and email were included, they were not used in our analysis

The modules we used to clean and process were as follows. We used Pandas to organize our data. Sklearn, and Scipy to analyze our data and run statistical modeling our data, and finally Seaborn to visualize our data. 

Two forms of feature engineering were used in our project, revenue estimation and borough specificity. Revenue estimation could be used for all AirBnb listings, but borough specificity was unique to the dataset of New York City AirBnb listings. The property values of real estate in the five boroughs of New York City vary widely, and we felt that which borough an AirBnb was located in would have a large contribution to the revenue generated from an AirBnb. As a result, the specific neighborhood of a New York City AirBnb would be a key contributor to its profitability. While neighborhood and location are important to any AirBnb’s revenue, our knowledge, being residents of New York City, we felt that borough specificity would be particularly important for the New York City AirBnb market. 

Our first step towards modeling AirBnb revenues was calculating revenue. While price was readily available in the dataset, the occupancy rate was not. While we could see the price per night of staying in AirBnb, there was no information on how many nights the AirBnb was occupied, occupancy rate. We would have to estimate it. The most relevant information to occupancy rate was Reviews per Month. From reviews per month, we would have a general idea of how many people stayed in an AirBnb. 

After each stay, a customer will leave a review for the AirBnb. Each customer will only leave one review after each stay. We also took into account the possibility that not every customer would leave a review. Online sources varied in their estimation of review rate, the chance that a customer would leave a review. Online sources gave a range varying from thirty percent to seventy five percent, so for the purposes of our analysis, we settled on a rate of forty percent.  The next piece of information would be the average length of stay for each AirBnb. While not available on our dataset, we were able to find city-wide averages for AirBnb stays. From online sources, unverified from AirBnb, we found that average length of stay in a New York City Airbnb was 6.2 days.  Taking into account our estimated values for average length of stay and rate of customers leaving reviews, we were able to calculate the average rate of which an AirBnb was occupied, occupancy rate. 
While the dataset used provided gave us all we needed to calculate the revenue of a cities AirBnb’s, so data categories were misleading or had to be removed from multicollinearity. Initially, we planned to calculate occupancy rate from “Availability_365”, however we found that this was not a value for occupancy rate, rather it was the amount of days in a year where the AirBnb was available to be rented. Other variables needed to be removed due to multicollinearity or lack of independence from other variables. For example, there were many categories about the reviews for an AirBnb, “reviews score cleanliness, review score location, and review score value”. While individually insightful, we found that these were all parts of the larger value of “reviews scores rating”. As a result, we decided to use “reviews scores rating” as it was the composite of all the other review category.

The linear regression model we used was “Ordinary Lease Squares” or OLS. While there were many contributing variables to an AirBnb’s revenue, we saw no reason to believe that relationship of revenue to these variables was anything but linear. For example, it would be reasonable to assume that the revenue of a two-person apartment would be more than a one-person apartment, but we found no reason to assume that this relationship was anything but linear. Price also had to be edited to fit the assumptions of the model. While most price listings were a per-day rate, some outliers in price were found. Due to the nature of the New York City market, it was reasonable to assume that were some 1000$+ a night AirBnb properties in New York. Another cause of these outlier prices was a difference in rate. Rather than listing the per-day rates of a stay, the owner of the AirBnb could have also listed the rate of stay in per week or per month. While these listings should be accounted for, for a more accurate model, outlier priced listings represented a small portion of overall AirBnb listings and were removed for overall model accuracy. 

The revenue model was able to predict price and revenue of a New York City with an R-squared of 0.457 and 0.231 respectively. While our model was able to significantly account for a portion of variability in price and revenue, it was not able to account for the majority of it. Our model told us that the positive contributors to a AirBnb’s price were a Manhattan location and the number of Bedrooms with coefficients of 0.688 and 0.3622. negative contributors to an AirBnb’s price were having an house or hotel room as opposed to an apartment with coefficients of -0.28 and -0.22 respectively. The positive contributors to an AirBnb’s revenue were a real bed over a pull-out bed, number of people accommodated, and cleanliness, with coefficients of 0.47, 0.233, and 0.24. Negative contributors to an AirBnb’s revenue were a shared room over a full house and more bathrooms with coefficients of -0.52 and -0.178. All coefficient values had significant P-Values of less than 0.05 and other contributors without significant P-values were excluded from our model 

According to our model a maximally revenue generating AirBnb in New York City will be a condominium, in Manhattan, with a real bed, many rooms, and is clean. While these are not novel insights, my partner and I were able to generate an ordinary lease squares linear regression model that gave us statistically significant results. From quantitative and qualitative variables, we were able to account for variance in our dependent variable of price and revenue. 

